UNITSMD\FRNEGRNG.MD.HISTORY The French word "chasser", comes from German "jas¸r" - hunter, chasseur. In the French army all regiments of light infantry were referred to as chasseurs. The chasseurs went through sustained and tough training, considerably different from the training of line infantry. A minimum of time was spent on drilling, and a lot of efforts were applied to improve soldiers' marksmanship. Compared to line infantry, the light infantry was supposed to be able to immediately break into small groups to create a long extended circuit of riflemen, and to be able to operate individually without waiting for direct command. They often moved an extended distance ahead of the army, firing at the enemy from long range, breaking its formations and demoralizing it. Rather frequently they were used to fire at the enemy from buildings and other natural cover, or for fighting in forests and wilderness areas. The chasseurs received special objectives, including the elimination of enemy officers and standard-bearers and that of artillery crews prior to storming gun batteries. Carabineer companies were established out of most skilled and accurate chasseurs to make elite units armed with rifled guns or as they were also called, carbines. A bullet fired from such a weapon rotated in flight, increasing the accuracy and distance of shot. On the downside though, it took longer to load than it did a smoothbore musket. 
UNITSMD\FRNFUZ.MD.HISTORY The name fusilier derives from the French word "fusil" - "rifle". This was the name given to regular line infantry soldiers of the French army, who weren't members of privileged or special-purpose regiments. Usually fusiliers received a decent military training, and could effectively fight in melee and ranged combat. As in any line infantry units, the main training bias was on military drill, combat maneuver and hold-in-formation skills. Individual combat and marksmanship trainings were rather superficial. First of all, soldiers were supposed to act simultaneously, so that, when ordered, to fire a mass musket volley at the enemy. In such type of shooting the individual skill of a rifleman wasn't really important. On the battlefield, fusiliers fought and moved in a dense order: line, column or regrouped in a square. They were armed with a musket (1777 type), a bayonet and with half-saber (only till 1805). French fusiliers mainly fought in open areas, and were always in the front lines of the infantry were they had to take the worst of the enemy fire.
UNITSMD\FRNFUZNG.MD.HISTORY At the time of the Great French Revolution of 1789, numerous people left their homes to uphold revolutionary ideas and principles they believed in. Many of them were armed not only with fists and fanatical determination, but with firearms as well. They gathered into groups to withstand the royal army. Such groups called themselves brigades and half-brigades, though they were organized identically to government military battalions and regiments. The unusual name was chosen to emphasize the difference between them and the regiments of royalists they were fighting against. Armed revolutionaries called themselves National Guards, though it was really the "force of commoners" which changed the outcome of the revolution. After the glorious victory of the revolution, the National Guards were retained, received official status, and continued to exist independently of the army. Guards were used as law-enforcement units who carried out the functions of police, though many of the National Guardsmen later continued to serve as professional soldiers. Interesting enough, that at all times, the recruiting system of National Guard was more than favorable - even a crippled old man or a youngster could join the Guards, if he was prepared to fight for the Republic and Revolution.
UNITSMD\FRNGRE.MD.HISTORY Grenadier companies were elite line infantry and consisted of the tallest and bravest soldiers of a battalion. Perhaps, every ordinary fusilier wished to become a grenadier, as all the grenadiers were privileged troops and received increased rations and payment. The ones lucky enough to become grenadiers were very proud of that and looked down on other soldiers physically and figuratively. French grenadiers were famous by their stubborn and willful character, though they always justified the privileges rendered, having proved to be tireless and unbeatable fighters. The very word "grenadier" has always been related to a tall soldier, terrifying in close combat. Military history records many cases when the attack of these giants put the enemy to flight. The armament of a grenadier consisted of a shortened (dragoon) musket with bayonet and half-saber.  
UNITSMD\FRNKDRG.MD.HISTORY Dragoons first appeared in full form in France. Duparc attributes this achievement to Peter Stozzi, who, in 1543, made their harquebus mounted in order to spare their vigor, yet if necessary, they could dismount and fight on foot. Later on, in the period of 1550 - 1553, Marshal de Brisaque set single regiments of his harquebusiers on horses, which gave them extra mobility and allowed them to take the most essential positions, where they dismounted and fought on foot. Subsequently, Karl IX and Henry IV used dragoons to carry out operations. At that time, dragoons were just mounted infantry, which used horses only for swift movement. But soon, a dislike of dismounting became common and mounted combat became popular. It was the Emperor who began to use dragoons as cavalry. He even increased the number of dragoon regiments in the Grand Army and transformed the 11th and 12th Hussar regiments into dragoon units, to the utmost discontent of the Hussars.Dragoons were armed with a broadsword, which could be used to fight easily on foot or horseback, the same as with musket and bayonet. In order to achieve the maximum firing density they let the enemy's cavalry approach to twenty paces and their infantry to fifty. But in most cases, dragoons preferred not to shoot, but to slash the enemy, at which they succeeded much better. 
UNITSMD\FRNKEGR.MD.HISTORY Chasseurs were distinguished as a separate cavalry type after the revolutionary wars and the military campaign in Italy. The Emperor realized the necessity of establishing mobile cavalry units that could equally withstand the enemy in the vanguard or rear-guard and to be the "eyes and ears" of the entire army. Mostly, chasseurs engaged in reconnaissance and ambushes of the enemy. Besides sabers, chasseurs were equipped with musketoons. On the battlefield they were used to support other cavalry units, mainly Uhlans and Cuirassiers. They used Henry II's carabineers' tactics, letting the enemy's cavalry come as close as fifty paces, or their infantry two hundred paces, and then firing on the enemy. Volleys were fired not by the line, but by the whole detachment simultaneously, after which they hid behind cuirassiers to reload their guns. Sometimes they took part in pursuing the enemy.
UNITSMD\FRNKKAR.MD.HISTORY If the Cuirassiers were supposed to be the elite cavalry, Carabineers were the elite of the elite. Their golden cuirasses shone in the sun, spreading fear among the enemy. Carabineers were established in France during the reign of Henry II and were formed mostly from Gascons and Basques and constituted light cavalry. In 1693, Louis XIV combined them into one regiment and armed them with short carbines, bullets for which were made in both small and large sizes. Large was for maximum fit in the carbine barrel, and for which hammers were often used in reloading. The small rounds were for swift reloading when necessary. The Emperor divided carabineers into two regiments. The Carabineers function on the battlefield had many similarities with that of the Cuirassiers - for crushing attacks on the enemy and for assuring success. Carabineers were armed with a broadsword and short carbine, which subsequently was replaced with the English smooth-bore gun. They were good marksmen, and their fire inflicted heavy damage on enemy ranks. Carabineers preferred to fire from close range. They also had excellent training in handling the broadsword. No others in the French army could compare in swordsmanship mastery with the Carabineers. The Carabineers' cuirass, just as that of the Cuirassiers, was well-suited for protecting from enemy bullets, arrows and case-shot. 
UNITSMD\FRNSAP.MD.HISTORY In each grenadier or carabineer company of French line and light infantry there were four sapper soldiers and a sapper corporal, who had been trained in basic engineering. They usually wore a standard uniform of a grenadier, with emblems on the sleeves in the form of crossed axes, white leather gloves with bells and an apron. It's interesting to note that a broad beard was an obligatory element of sapper uniform. The sapper equipment included an axe and a special field-engineer cutlass. They were armed with dragoon rifles and sometimes a brace of pistols. Sappers were supposed to destroy and build fortifications, and also help soldiers destroy fences and punch holes through the walls of buildings. Sometimes it was necessary fro them to use black-powder charges.
UNITSMD\FRNVOL.MD.HISTORY By decree on March, 12 1804, special voltigeur companies were created in battalions of light infantry. Later, similar companies were created in the line infantry battalions, as well. For creating these companies, the best marksmen were selected from experienced and distinguished soldiers; it is interesting that many them turned out to be short in height (as well as their Emperor - Napoleon Bonaparte). "Voltiger" - in French means to flit and voltigeurs really lived up to their name. They had greater endurance compared to other soldiers, and owing to less bulky muskets, they had better mobility. Voltigeurs were armed with dragoon shortened muskets, bayonets and half-sabers. On battlefields, voltigeurs moved as skirmishers in front of other infantry lines, firing accurately at the enemy from long distances to bring down officers and reduce morale. In addition they were guarded flanks of less mobile infantry during realignment or maneuvering. Voltigeur companies were considered elite troops. They were the implementation of Bonaparte's plan to reward all brave soldiers and sharpshooters who were unable to join the grenadiers or carabineers, due to their lack of size. Despite much skepticism, the establishment of such troops proved a wise decision.
UNITSMD\FRNKULN.MD.HISTORY The first Uhlan regiment was established by the Emperor in Warsaw and totaled one thousand pikes. The second regiment was formed a bit later, in 1810, from the Holland mounted guard regiment, which, due to its uniform color received the title of the Red Uhlan. According to the decree of November 25, 1811, each Cuirassier unit had to have an Uhlan regiment attached to it. This came from the Emperor, who wanted to have troops who were able to oppose Austrian and Russian Uhlans and Cossacks as equals. They were armed with a pike with tassel, mostly used to pursue the fleeing enemy and mount sudden assaults from the flanks. Uhlans have always been famous for their mobility. They could fiercely attack the enemy's ranks from their flanks or rear. After the enemy's line had fired a volley, the Uhlans attacked it from the front. The Uhlans were ideal at supporting the infantry lines in battle.
UNITSMD\FRNKMAM.MD.HISTORY Mamelukes in the French army were formed in 1800, when two more Janissary regiments were formed based on Kleber's regiment. They appeared in Europe after the Emperor had finished his campaign in Egypt. In 1803, by a decree on the 25th of February, an additional Mameluke regiment, which had been attached to a mounted-chasseur guard, was formed. Mamelukes were armed with sabers of excellent quality and a brace of pistols, which they kept in saddle holsters. Their stirrups were fixed quite short, and both of the saddle pommels were high enough to prevent even a wounded Mameluke from falling from his horse. From early childhood Mamelukes were taught to handle the saber and horse riding, which made the Mameluke a fierce warrior and an outstanding master of equestrian battles. Mamelukes used brilliant and fast Arabian horses, whose speed and maneuverability became legendary. Arabians became famous for their sudden attacks, which allowed them to break into the enemy's ranks, bringing death to foes. Born riders, they could easily outflank the enemy's ranks and attack from the rear and with the same ease, they attacked enemy ranks from the flanks. 
UNITSMD\FRNKKIR.MD.HISTORY Napoleon understood that his heavy cavalry lacked the maneuverability of Frederick the Great's cavalry, so he tried to redress this disadvantage by increasing the number of riders attacking. Therefore, the cavalry started to attack at a trot, as it was only at this pace that it could hold order. However, this kind of attack caused great casualties, both among the cavaliers and horses. In order to reduce casualties, the heavy cavalry had been equipped with cuirasses. They became the elite cavalry force of the entire Grand Army. This type of cavalry was mostly used for powerful frontal attacks and for disrupting the enemy's ranks, the success of which usually predetermined the outcome of the entire campaign. Cuirassiers were armed with broadswords and a brace of pistols. Subsequently, the most effective firing range for them was close up, when riders had already penetrated the enemy lines. Cuirassiers were the best at assaulting enemy cannon, due to their cuirasses, which provided superior protection not only from bullets and arrows, but from case-shot as well. They could withstand a volley which would surely decimate another mounted unit. Dragoons and Chasseurs were often used as deadly marksmen.
UNITSMD\FRNKGUS.MD.HISTORY French army hussars were established according to the example of the original hussars, whom the old Hungary was famous for. The Emperor increased the number of hussar units to thirteen. French hussars, in addition to winning many women's hearts, became famous as the only cavalry in existence that had taken control of ships on the open sea. It was in January 1795, when some ships from Holland's battle fleet had frozen in ice not far from the city of Toxel. Having received these tidings, Napoleon sent a strong squadron of cavalry along with horse-drawn artillery to capture the vessels. They made it through the whole of northern Holland by forced march, passed the frozen Sudener See and, having surrounded the fleet, demanded its surrender. Surprised by the appearance of the cavalry and by its threats, the Dutch commanders agreed to lower their flags. Hussar troops were used to cover infantry and artillery movement, supporting it during mustering and deployment. No troops have ever provided cover for infantry better than they did. Hussars were armed with sabers and musketoons. The Hussars were famous for their mobility. They could easily outflank the enemy from the rear or flanks. 
UNITSMD\FRNKGRE.MD.HISTORY In addition to the foot grenadier regiments, mounted ones chose the best men for the job. The first mounted grenadier-guards company was established by Louis XIV in 1676. In fact, he used grenadiers both as cavalry and as foot soldiers. Yet only the Emperor began to use mounted grenadiers exclusively as cavalry.Grenadiers on the battlefield were used for powerful attacks, when it was necessary to assure success. They were outstanding marksmen, their single volley could eliminate a whole squad. The volley was especially effective when it was fired fifty paces from the foe. Although grenadiers were taught to fire from horseback, they preferred to slash the enemy, breaking into its ranks at full speed.
UNITSMD\FRNKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standard Bearer


UNITSMD\ENGGRE.MD.HISTORY From the second half of 17th century, grenadiers were present in the majority of European armies. Originally, "grenadier" was the name for soldiers armed with hand-thrown fused grenades, but later, that became the name of chosen infantry, in particular, the senior right-flank regiment, mustered from the tallest and strongest soldiers. Such a company existed in every British infantry battalion. Usually they were used for shock attacks on strong points of the enemy. Frequently the grenadiers' bayonet attack was the culmination of battle, followed by breaking the enemy lines that led to a glorious victory. Their advantage in strength and height, in combination with good training, made grenadiers very dangerous opponents. Among all British grenadiers, the so-called guards grenadiers, the First Regiment of foot soldiers, were especially renowned. Many soldiers of the regiment afterwards became sergeants in other units, spreading the morale and skills of the Guards grenadiers to the entire Royal Army.
UNITSMD\ENGMUS.MD.HISTORY In Britain, the system of recruit enlistment was voluntary. But, not many citizens of the empire agreed to join the army and spend a decade and a half in army service. A large part of the army consisted of foreign mercenaries. The British recruiters didn't have many options where to draw volunteers from - they would typically conscript from prisons, taverns, and similar institutions. These people went in the army for varying reasons such as: boredom, being seduced by regular pay and food, a thirst for adventures, so as to escape the law, obligations or women. The majority of them were a little crazy, adventurers or just simply criminals. Only strict discipline, based on the inevitability and cruelty of punishment ensured obedience. For these reasons, "the abyss" separating officers from common soldiers of the British army was much bigger than in the other European armies of that period. Besides that, the majority of regiments were financed from personal pockets of noblemen who usually acted in the role of colonels and did not participate in the command of operations. The role of commander in a regiment usually lay on shoulders of the lieutenant colonel. As history has shown, this kind of system was effective, as the British infantrymen were always well drilled and trained to shoot. 
UNITSMD\ENGSAP.MD.HISTORY The foremost task of these troops was to clear the way for the units they accompanied. With massive axes, sappers could make passages in fences and unfortified walls. To destroy more serious fortifications, they usually used powder mines. These detachments were quite frequently used to build different kinds of fortification constructions as well. The trademark of the sappers was a beard, which was almost an accepted element of their uniform. Usually sappers and minelayers went first in an assault. They had to carry powder charges to blow up enemy fortifications so the main forces could proceed with the assault.
UNITSMD\ENGEGR.MD.HISTORY The Scottish regiments, as an integral part of the British army, certainly deserve special attention. The Highlander regiments, as they were called in the British army, consisted of men from the mountainous (highland) parts of Scotland who were distinguished by their aggressive and proud temperament. In those regions, hunting and protection of cattle with firearms was a duty of almost all men. The Scottish recruits always became fine soldiers, as war was in their blood. All fifteen Highlander Regiments, used as shock troops, had a structure similar to regiments of line infantry. Other nationalities had various impressions of their shattering attacks and extravagant appearance, which led to the assigning of nicknames such as "ladies from hell" or "amazons". Highlanders wore uniforms that included kilts. Their Tam-o'-Shanter, decorated with black feathers, was the traditional headgear of the soldiers of these regiments and was decorated by adding a number of feathers, which is why it resembled a grenadier's cap. The role of drummers was attached to bagpipers, and only NCOs retained the traditional Scottish broadsword. 

UNITSMD\AUSEGR.MD.HISTORY The light infantry in Austria was almost always an adjunct to the main army and was never considered to be an effective force or a tactical instrument. The units performing as light infantry were arranged along the lines of militia, made up of people who were not enlisted in the regular army. The effectiveness of such regiments was highly doubtful. For a long time, light infantry existed as an inexpensive force not requiring extensive training.  In 1801, the Tyrolean Chasseurs regiment was organized, and it became the first large formation of light infantry in the Austrian army. The Tyrol region traditionally was a source of excellent marksmen for the army. The complement of a regiment was formed by a small number of Tyrolean snipers and the rest filled by volunteers. The chasseurs had equipment similar to the light infantry with at least some of them armed with rifles. Soldiers of these regiments often proved their bravery and marksmanship, and became famous as stealthy riflemen. Even after the loss of the Tyrol in 1805, this regiment continued to exist. 
UNITSMD\AUSFLG.MD.HISTORY Standard Bearer
UNITSMD\AUSGRE.MD.HISTORY Grenadiers were considered to be the elite line infantry in every European state. But the shaky military system in Austria was ruthless even to grenadier units. In 1805, every Austrian infantry regiment consisted of five battalions: four infantry and one grenadier. The next year, all regiments were reduced in number by one infantry battalion. All aspects of military life were rife with utterly stupid rules and stereotypes. Tall and bulky, Austrian grenadiers did not receive any special rations, as the high command considered it to be a luxury. Instead, with the money saved, alcohol was bought to intoxicate soldiers before a battle - grenadiers were privileged with additional portions here - and the quantities consumed usually made the army go battling staggering drunk. A separate problem was the outmoded army regulations, established for the entire line infantry. The army regulations instructed grenadier how to walk, stand and breathe with any separate initiative punished even during a battle. All these factors made it practically impossible to receive any benefit from the strength and skills of grenadiers during a fight. Nevertheless, the Austrian grenadiers were much more courageous than other soldiers, and fought with great self-sacrifice. 

UNITSMD\AUSKGUS.MD.HISTORY This branch first appeared in Hungary - even the name hussar comes from Hungarian "huss" - twenty and "ar" - wages. At the time Franz II (who was afterwards renamed Franz I) ascended the throne, there were ten Hussar regiments in the Austrian cavalry, which, in 1815, was increased to twelve. Austrian Hussars were supposed to be the most persistent and irreconcilable not only in the Austrian cavalry, but in the whole of Europe. Hussars, as compared to the entire Austrian cavalry, were much more mobile, in order to direct fire on the enemy rather than wage melee combat. Later this was prohibited. Thus, the 1784 Statute which contained all the directives concerning waging war with cavalry placed major emphasis on describing the forms of saber combat. However it was prejudiced toward the expediency of delivering a chopping blow - the entire cavalry had to deliver penetrating blows with a broadsword more than with saber. Later versions of the statute approved Hussars, as well as the rest of the cavalry, functioning as auxiliary elements to protect and support the infantry. So, such cavalry terms of reference as accompanying the infantry as well as initial reconnaissance and waging rear raids came into being. In spite of moderate command incompetence, Hussars mostly coped with their duties perfectly well and deserved the glory of being among the best Austrian army regiments.
UNITSMD\AUSMUS.MD.HISTORY By the beginning of the nineteenth century the Austrian Army was suffering terribly. Conniving counsels and incompetent aristocratic noblemen took command of the armed forces, and led them into collapse. Obsolete tactics were constantly modified with totally absurd clarifications, which far from removing the old problems, created new ones. The organization and management system became so complex and fluid that even the higher authorities were confused. Battle training and regimentation of the Austrian infantry was quite erratic. As a result of reducing the size of the army in times of peace its professionalism and effectiveness were drastically affected. The main priority in soldier training was the bayonet attack with marksmanship being considered a low secondary priority (only ten rounds per year were allocated to practice firing). All this was aggravated by a profound lack of uniforms, footwear and even firearms. However, even in such conditions, Austrian soldiers managed to maintain their discipline, patriotism and stood resolute in battles. It was only due to the personal qualities of each Austrian soldier that the army was able to provide stiff resistance against Napoleon's army - the most progressive army of the period.



UNITSMD\RUSEGR.MD.HISTORY In the first decades of the 19th century, the shortage of light infantry in the Russian army was very acute. In the line infantry, coordination of actions and discipline were key. While the dense volleys of a whole unit were important, the individual ranged combat skills were not. On the battlefield the light infantry was to fight the enemy from a distance, which required soldiers to be accurate in shooting, quick and effective with maneuver. Such skills were obtained via lengthy training. Drilling a line infantryman was much cheaper than training accurate, enduring and quick thinking soldiers at public expense. Therefore Russian chasseur regiments would typically enroll experienced hunters and serf chasseurs, as opposed to raw recruits. Recruited chasseurs had been expert riflemen well before joining the army, as they honed their skills through hunting. Those who became officers and NCOs of chasseur regiments were frequently from the upper class and had been keen on amateur shooting. They chose to put on a uniform and to use their skill to protect their homeland. The French soon noticed the courage and effective combat skills repeatedly demonstrated by Russian chasseurs, and so treated these units with high esteem. The armament of chasseurs was quite diverse, ranging from smoothbore muskets of various calibers to carbines. When enrolled to a unit, newcomers typically never left their favorite weapon behind. Instead of bayonets, Russian chasseur rifles had daggers.
UNITSMD\RUSMUS.MD.HISTORY The Russian musketeer was a firm and courageous soldier, however most of time an ill equipped and wretchedly supplied one. Besides, in the early 19th century, the level of training in the Russian infantry was lower than in other armies of that period. It was considered enough for a soldier to be able to march, promptly carry out officer's orders and skillfully load the musket. After Paul's coming to throne, the linear infantry, as opposed to the Katherine's time, was not taught to fight in melee and ranged combat: all the soldier knew was how to hold the formation and when to fire into the side of the enemy. Still though, saying that Russian musketeers were of no value on the battlefield would be incorrect. The majority of soldiers highly praised their uniform and was up to sparring nothing in the fight for their homeland. Patriotism, multiplied by farmer-like endurance and wit made the Russian soldier a very brave and valorous fighter. It was the lack of proper training, which turned out to be fatal most of the time though. Musketeers comprised the great bulk of Russian infantry. They fought in dense order - a line, a column or a square - and used the standard tactics of European armies of that period. Russian musketeers were armed with a musket, a bayonet and a cutlass, the same as other countries' line infantry.
UNITSMD\RUSPAR.MD.HISTORY The militia, summoned in the first decade of the 19th century, was immense if compared to the European standards - it totaled 612,000 men. The role of militia during Napoleon's invasion into the Russian empire was therefore considerable. The militiamen formations were to support regular units, as opposed to warring against the enemy independently. It was not infrequent however, that the situation forced militiamen to fight independently in unequal combat with units of the enemy. The equipment of Russian militiamen of that period was truly poor: most frequently they were armed with hastily forged pikes or even agricultural tools such as scythes, pitchforks and hatchets. In many regiments, militia was allocated hats with a copper monogram and a cross. Sometimes they received a kind of uniform, though typically the majority of militiamen wore their normal clothes. Militia frequently defeated enemy regiments, catching them on a march or by a sudden ambush attack. But when it came to clashes in open terrain, they would always suffer terrible losses.
UNITSMD\RUSPIO.MD.HISTORY Until 1830s in the Russian army, pioneers was a name given to soldiers from sapper companies in engineering units. No army could exist without the help of sappers and miners, someone had to build fortifications and help to destroy barriers created by the enemy. Russian pioneers proved to be fairly competent with their job. On top of that, far beyond their basic duties, pioneers would fight alongside the regular infantry, resulting in many engineering subdivisions being honored for their courage and quick wit. In 1812, the Russian empire possessed two regiments of pioneers, each including twenty-four companies. As opposed to muskets, pioneers would be armed with pistols and cutlasses. The pistol was far lighter than a musket, which proved highly important in battle as a pioneer had to carry not only his armament, but also entrenching tools, or large powder charges. 



UNITSMD\AUSKULN.MD.HISTORY The Austrian army first established Uhlans during the post-Seven Years War reform. At the time of Franz II's accession there were only 2 Uhlan regiments, while in 1815 2 more were added - one stationed in Krakow and the other settled in Galician. The horsemen's armament was repeatedly changed, starting as early as Joseph II's reign and up until the deployment of pikes in all regiments in 1790. Uhlans dealt mainly with fast reconnaissance and infantry support, much as the other Austrian light cavalry units. Their priority task was to defend the flanks of the advancing cavalry, along with chasing the fleeing enemy. From the very beginning of the Napoleonic Wars until their defeat in 1809, the Austrian army high command used Uhlans mostly impractically, much as they did the entire cavalry. Despite everything, the Uhlans managed to cope with the problems put before them. 
UNITSMD\AUSKKIR.MD.HISTORY Cuirassiers of the Austrian cavalry were organized based on the example of Great Reiters and the Duke Maurits van Oranje cuirassiers. As with every Austrian horseman, they were highly trained and equipped with remarkable horses. Cuirassiers were armed with a broadsword and two pistols. The pistols, however, were only used to protect themselves from enemy cavaliers. Austrian cuirassiers, unlike cuirassiers from the rest of Europe, wore a semi-cuirass instead of a full cuirass, which was fixed to the undergarment with straps. Semi-cuirasses are inadequate as defensive armor, as shown in the battle of Eckmuhl. French and Austrian cuirassiers faced one another. The French cuirassiers wore full cuirasses and weren't really concerned about back stabs. Their only thought was of bursting through and striking blows on the enemy's rear, and they actually succeeded, managing to eliminate many Austrian horsemen while sustaining few casualties themselves. The battle lasted for only a few minutes until the Austrians, having suffered heavy casualties, were forced to flee. When the cuirassiers were retreating, they finally realized how inferior their armor was. The battle turned into a slaughter. The Austrians lost many dead and wounded, although they had proven themselves to be courageous warriors.
UNITSMD\AUSKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standard Bearer
UNITSMD\AUSKDRGT.MD.HISTORY As in other European armies, Austrian dragoons were established based on the model of the French dragoons. At the time of Franz II's accession, the army counted six dragoon regiments. After reforms in 1815, the number of regiments remained as previously. Armed with broadsword, carbine and Roman-style helmet, Dragoons were employed for fierce attacks on both opposing infantry and cavalry. According to the 1784 statute, and the following 1806 one, Dragoons, as well as any other cavalry detachment, were supposed to assemble in columns and other massed formations only during a march, were forbidden to engage the enemy directly and could only attack as part of a flank defense maneuver. Formations with a depth of up to two lines were the basis of Austrian cavalry doctrine. This frequently resulted in situations where dense formations of French cavalry, consisting mainly of ill-trained riders on swiftly chosen horses, would simply break through the thin lines of well-ordered Austrian Dragoons. Additionally, as a result of the dearth of statute directives concerning the implementation of simultaneous attack by several regiments, Austrian Dragoons had to attack the enemy having only flanking cover from Uhlans and Hussars, and occasionally even on their own. One can foresee the consequences - defeat during the 1809 campaign.
UNITSMD\AUSKDRG.MD.HISTORY In 1798 Chevau-Legers and Dragoon regiments were combined into a new type of cavalry, the Light Dragoons. For a brief period of time, the uniform of these equestrian combatants looked much like that of cuirassiers, although they wore no cuirasses. But after a succession of reforms, their units were changed and dragoons were given a new uniform that looked mostly like the heavy Dragoons' one. The major task of these riders on the battlefield was as that of the heavy dragoons and they were armed with comparable weapons - broadsword and carbine. Later, the chief commander decided to reorganize the regiments. Consequently, the regiments joined heavy Dragoon detachments, since light dragoons were much like heavy dragoons in terms of uniform, armament and field duties.
UNITSMD\AUSGRN.MD.HISTORY The military border of Hungary and Transylvania was a narrow strip of ground where every man was ready to withstand an attack from the Turkish territory. People living in the shadow of the Ottoman Empire were hardened by continuous wars with the Turks. In those lands every man received basic military training and was taught marksmanship. In case of war, the population of these areas could form battalions to support the regular army. Such battalions united into so-called Boardsmen regiments (Grenz-Infanterie). The number of such regiments was considerable and made up about a quarter of the army. However, heavy losses during the Turkish wars and depressed economic conditions led to the force's diminution from roughly 57,000 men to only 13,000 by 1799. The number of regiments remained the same, but the manning each was drastically reduced. Additionally, the Austrian military command never held Boardsmen in much esteem. This attitude was a result of the headstrong temperament of the Boardermen which often caused severe conflicts with the Prussians. Some generals eloquently called Boardsmen helpless, deceitful and absolutely undisciplined and they insisted on the disbandment of the border regiments. This opinion didn't change despite Boardsmen becoming heroes in numerous battles in which they were glorified for their marksmanship and initiative.
UNITSMD\AUSLAN.MD.HISTORY In Austria, Landwer was the name given to the militia which was established by committees and public counsels for internal needs. This was a hurriedly summoned militia, which enrolled men aged 18 to 45 years. In case of an enemy threat, the troops could be summoned into regiments and divisions to support the regular army. The very idea of a national army was always distasteful to authorities. However, immense losses throughout the military campaign of 1805 compelled the creation of such troops. Thus, in July 1808, the Landwer was formed. The specially appointed officers were supposed to conduct combat training, however no one was really engaged in it. Austrian communities were expected to provide about 200,000 militiamen, however they couldn't amass such a number. Many autonomous governments preferred to create their own militia forces, instead of entrusting their people into the hands of Austrian generals (of notorious reputation). The militia included regular and volunteer units, thus people drawn against their will as well as patriots desiring to defend their homeland in the Austrian army ranks. Except for voluntary units, the majority of other Landwer troops didn't show much worth. On the eve of a battle, nearly two-thirds of the militiamen deserted, unwilling to risk a senseless death under the command of incompetent generals. It is interesting to note though that the majority of deserters didn't flee to their homes, but continued to fight against the enemy as guerilla squads, independent of the regular army and its command.








UNITSMD\PRUBKR.MD.HISTORY Reichsfurst Friedrich Wilhelm was robbed of his duchy by Napoleon. In 1809, he attacked the French occupiers with a troop recruited from Schlesien. Their kilt was black as was their Tschako, which had a white skull on it. That's the reason why their leader was called the "Black Duke" and the troopers the "Black Corps". The freedom fighters achieved considerable military success. Later, the unit was merged with the German-English legion for the fight against Napoleon. After the return of Napoleon in 1815, the "Black Duke" called his followers to arms again. On June 16,  he died in Quatre Bras.  The "Unbeugsame Welfe" (Unconquerable Welfe) was celebrated by people and stood as an example of the courageous fight against foreign rule.
UNITSMD\PRUEGR.MD.HISTORY The light infantry appeared in Prussia at the time of Friedrich the Great (1740-1786) and continued to increase in number during the following years. By a separate decree, the Prussian monarch founded the so-called foot chasseurs. This regiment was always regarded as elite and Prussia never had a second chasseurs regiment. Apart from the foot chasseurs, the Prussian light infantry included so-called "voluntary regiments", which originally were hardly different from brigand gangs, but in the course of time they were transformed into fusilier  battalions (some of them to subsequently reinforce the chasseur regiment). Originally, chasseurs were used for patrolling, but gradually began to carry out various other tasks, such as scouting, line infantry support and sniping at the enemy from ambushes. The units were made up of hunters and foresters, which ensured the chasseurs were sharp shooters. Their regular weapon became a rifled weapon - the carbine. The difference in accuracy between smooth-bore and rifled weapons was significant. Due to this, the effectiveness of chasseurs using carbines did not suffer despite their lower rate of fire compared to smooth-bore guns. 
UNITSMD\PRUFLG.MD.HISTORY Standard Bearer
UNITSMD\PRUGRE.MD.HISTORY By the beginning of war with France, the Prussian infantry regiment consisted of ten musketeer and two grenadier companies. All Prussian grenadiers, as proper, were tall and strong soldiers. They had special privileges, in particular, were better trained, fed and supplied than others. Unlike French grenadiers who often fought other types of French soldiers and even officers, Prussians, including the representatives of these elite units, behaved with the German-like law-obedience. Besides, there did not establish the custom of arrogant behavior towards the other rank and file as was the case with many other armies. These grenadiers always displayed an example of valour and courage toward their fellow soldiers. Prussian grenadiers didn't wear high furry hats as peculiar of grenadiers at that time period, but instead wore a headdress with a high frontal plate edged with a fur tape. From a distance, it did resemble the common grenadier hat.
UNITSMD\PRUKDRG.MD.HISTORY As Friedrich Wilhelm III succeeded to the throne, he obtained at his disposal dragoons of perfectly trained horsemen. The Prussian Dragoons were awesome equestrian warriors but had problems with fighting dismounted. They were trained to ignore enemy fire and courageously burst through the enemy ranks. Dragoons were equipped with carbines and broadswords. They were strictly forbidden to fire mounted and had to use melee sword tactics only. In formation, the dragoons took their place between cuirassiers who were in the middle and hussars positioned on the flanks. During battle, dragoons had to cooperate effectively with both of them. During the reign of Friedrich Wilhelm, the dragoons, as did the whole Prussian cavalry, fell into decay. The army experienced a dire need for young and talented commanders, although it was up to the cavalry to prevent the dispersal of the entire army. In 1806, when Prussia lost the war against France, it turned into an embarrassing disaster - only five out of fourteen regiments remained fully manned, the rest of the army suffered great losses. Hardly any platoons or even single individuals managed to escape death or injury.
UNITSMD\PRUKEGR.MD.HISTORY Chasseurs appeared in the Prussian army right after the skirmishes with Austria, when the lack of multi-purpose light cavalry emerged. Mounted chasseurs became this type of cavalry. They were well trained and had ideal horses. Since chasseurs were forbidden to use fire-arms in close order, they could only provide fire when patrolling or pursuing the enemy. Cavaliers were therefore good at handling fire-arms and were taught marksmanship and fast reloading. Mounted chasseurs were mainly used to detain deserters and provide mounted reconnaissance. Instead of sabers, they were equipped with muskets that allowed them to provide covering fire for infantry and attack dispersed enemy lines. Chasseurs usually attacked in solid order. The most highly trained ones could fire shots backwards from the saddle. Chasseurs mostly interacted with cuirassiers, and were deadly marksmen. In order to reload, they hid behind the cuirassiers backs, thus supporting their attack and outflanking the enemy from the rear.
UNITSMD\PRUKGUS.MD.HISTORY The Prussian Hussars were founded in 1721 based on the example of the Hungarian hussars. The troops ran to nine squadrons, three of which were "Lifeguards Hussars" and six "Prussian Hussars". After Friedrich II encountered light Austrian cavalry, he subsequently decided to strengthen his own regiments. Thus, in 1741, five more regiments were created. One of the regiments, the 4th hussars, was mostly made up of Polish deserters. Three more regiments were formed in 1744, the other ones after 1758. Hussars were used to provide outpost service and to perform mounted reconnaissance. Also, they were used to cover infantry on the battlefield and support Cuirassiers. Soldiers of this type were armed with sabers and musketoons. Their firing range was limited to a middle distance from the enemy, without getting too close. Hussars were supposed to be outstanding swordsmen, but they weren't quite competitive in striking power with the lesser-trained dragoons, who compensated for their lack of martial education with heavy, damaging blows.
UNITSMD\PRUKKIR.MD.HISTORY Prussian cuirassiers were the followers of the great Reiters. They took over many duties from the Duke Mauritz van Oranje's cuirassiers. Cuirassiers suffered a fall into decay along with the entire Prussian cavalry. The spirit of Friedrich II's great cavalry was still alive in them, but it had a bare semblance of its former might on the battlefield. Thus, before the beginning of the war with France, cuirasses were abolished in cuirassier units, outfitting soldiers with a quilted jacket instead. The entire army suffered a lack of young and talented commanders, and those who served preferred to keep to the old tactics.This type of cavalry was merely meant for frontal attacks. These mounted troops usually attacked in close order, leaving a short distance of five to six paces between the riders. This quite often led to great losses when horsemen came under enemy fire. They preferred melee combat to fire-arms. Cuirassiers were armed with a broadsword and a brace of pistols, therefore their only possible firing option was at close range, when riders were fully involved in fierce melee combat. As a result, cuirassiers often used dragoons and chasseurs for support to direct fire on the enemy from long range, and preferred to attack in melee themselves. After the Prussian defeat, only two cuirassier regiments were left.
UNITSMD\PRUMUS.MD.HISTORY The basic tactics of the Prussian line infantry during the Napoleonic wars was the suppression of the enemy with an rapid rate of fire and then achievement of final victory by decisive bayonet attack. Thus, the main focus in training was on increasing the fire rate; a Pussian musketeer, for instance, was considered to be able to shoot three times as fast as a French one. In practice though, it wasn't true. Despite the good training, a multitude of aggravating smaller hindrances made it impossible to effectively employ the Prussian infantry on the battlefield. Basically, at that time, the line infantry of any European country lacked a variety of tactics. However, the tactics of Prussian musketeers were predictable and inefficient to the highest degree. Therefore, their actions grew ever less effective, while huge losses, as a rule, were caused by tactical and strategic blunders of the command. Despite everything, the infantry's fighting capacity and morale remained at a high level during the entire Napoleonic epoch. Prussian musketeers were armed with a musket, bayonet and a cutlass. It is worth noting that Prussian muskets of that time had high accuracy of fire and reliability.
UNITSMD\PRUKGVR.MD.HISTORY The Guard regiment constituted part of the cuirassier regiments and had the lucky number "13". After Frederick the Great's death, that regiment consisted of three double-companied squadrons. Their complement didn't change until 1798, when Friedrich Wilhelm III, having succeeded to the throne, reorganized the regiment into a five squadron structure. This type of cavalry was mainly used for destructive assaults. Close order was used for attacks, the distance between the horsemen usually didn't exceed five to six paces. Soldiers preferred melee combat to shooting, as Warnery noted with precision: "The squadron that relies only on firearms will be defeated by the squadron that attacks without firing a shot". Despite the fact that guard troops still had the immortal spirit of the Grand Seydlitz cavalry, the army was falling into decay. The worst failing of the entire Prussian army was that their top commanders old age adversely affected the army's status. Although, in the war with France, the Guards proved themselves to be brilliant warriors and the 13th regiment ended the war having retained its initial complement.

UNITSMD\EGPLUC.MD.HISTORY The bow was one of first ranged weapons discovered by man (of course, after stones and throwing spears). Precise archery required the soldier to have considerable skills and physical strength. Furthermore, the effective distance was moderate. Historically, in Europe, firearms that had greater destructive power and range replaced bows and crossbows. However, in the East, bow and firearms existed concurrently. A bow had a significant advantage in rate of fire, was much simpler and more inexpensive to manufacture, no wonder that even in the 19th century Arabs continued to use it.
UNITSMD\EGPKMAM.MD.HISTORY Mamelukes were the Utter country's lords and masters. Consequently, there were no other forces in Egypt sufficient to withstand them. Mamelukes were solely warriors by vocation and didn't waste their time on anything else. Horses, weapons and feats of arms interested them in the utmost. The number of warriors sometimes exceeded 12,000 under the command of twenty-four Beys, each of whom had to equip and outfit 500-600 Mamelukes. Each warrior had two assistants on hand, one dealt with the horse, supplies and provisions, and the other was a carbine henchman.Mamelukes were brilliant warriors, well-trained in equitation and swordsmanship. Soldiers were equipped with a brace of pistols and a saber. Their armament and outfit were excessively decorated and some warriors had helmets and chain mail. To avoid the enemy's blows, Mamelukes mostly relied on their magnificent steeds, rather than on their delicate blades, which weren't meant for chopping and couldn't parry fierce enemy strikes. Riders had not the slightest notion of discipline and were absolutely unable to perform close maneuvers. Bonaparte himself noted that two Mamelukes could perfectly easily withstand three French, but one French squadron could easily resist an equivalent number of Mamelukes, and three hundred French could usually overwhelm the same number of Egyptians, so a thousand French cavaliers in principle could overcome one and a half thousand Mamelukes.
UNITSMD\EGPKCEM.MD.HISTORY Bedouins were the tribes which inhabited Egyptian territory. Quite bellicose, they couldn't stand to have any strangers in their domain. The nomads didn't waste an opportunity to attack neighboring lands. Bedouins were wanderers, they more or less engaged in farming, but they always lived in tents. They often changed their location, wandering through their territory, to provide fodder for camels and to use well-water. Bedouins quite often had to fight for their lands. Waging war mounted on camels, which were bred without assistance, each rider was armed with a bayonet-rifle, saber and a bandolier of 100 shells. Bedouins always assaulted the enemy in open order, frequently accompanying an attack with strident screams.
UNITSMD\EGPEGR.MD.HISTORY In medieval times, when Arabian conquerors subdued Northern Africa, the Tuareg were never conquered. The nomads left for the desert and vanished in the impassible sands of the Sahara from where they made plundering raids on Arabian settlements. The Tuareg were the only people in the world whose men had to cover their face with a veil even in the family circle (the name itself "Kel Tamasheq" means "people of the cover"). The settled farmers from the few oases in the Sahara held many black slaves. These were numerous because the Tuareg controlled caravan routes through the desert, which slave-traders used to deliver the captured Africans to the Mediterranean coast. The slaves tilled the land, tended herds and dug deep wells. Due to slave labor, the upper class Tuareg were able to spend enough time on combat training and attaining expertise that they became expert swordsmen. They were few in number, but in battle due to their skill and physical training they were superb.

UNITSMD\EGPMUS.MD.HISTORY In the beginning of the 19th century, Egypt was formally a part of the Ottoman Empire, but real power was concentrated in the hands of Beys or rulers of the Mamelukes. Ottoman and Mameluke armies did not really differ from mere bands of brigands. Janissary formations were originally distinguished from other Turkish troops as elite military forces. Such regiments were formed from young boys mustered from the Balkan provinces of the Ottoman Empire and converted to Islam. But by the time of Napoleon's invasion in Egypt, this once mighty military force had fallen into decay, become unruly and poorly organized. Usually, Janissaries were grouped into subdivisions called Ortashes (150 men-strong), but if fact the numerical strength of such units was dependent on the reputation of its commander. It was rumored that the most famous Ortash consisted of 30,000 men! Each Janissary possessed his own weapon, usually, a matchlock musket and one melee weapon at minimum.

UNITSMD\RUSGRE.MD.HISTORY Originally Russian grenadier subdivisions were created based on the example of grenadiers in other European armies. Similarly, grenadiers were recruited out of tall men with robust stature, so as were considered elite infantry. Still, they were considerably different from foreign units. For instance, a French battalion would have eight regular companies and a grenadier one, consisting exclusively of distinguished soldiers, while in Russia there soon appeared entire grenadier battalions and regiments. Most frequently those would gather not veterans, but merely tall and strong recruits, namely ex-peasants who, unlike regular infantry, were intensively trained before being sent to battlefield.  It would normally take a clash or two to make recruit a skillful warrior, ample of courage and persistence. Grenadiers of the Russian empire were glorified for their skills at maneuvering and dodging tactical traps. Their equipment was similar to that of the other line infantry. 

UNITSMD\TURMEC.MD.HISTORY At the time of Napoleon's invasion, the garrison of Cairo consisted of seven infantry corps and a number of irregular units. Not every Egyptian warrior could afford a gun. Some groups didn't use one at all, giving preference to traditional cold steel. Despite individual fighting skills of the Egyptian defenders being much greater then these of soldiers in Napoleon's army, the firepower of the French army gained them easy victories.    

UNITSMD\RUSKCHKOZ.MD.HISTORY The Black Sea Cossacks were initially created in 1811 as a guard unit, the Black Sea Sotnia, and incorporated into the Cossacks Life-Guard regiment. The Black Sea Cossacks were mostly used to support infantry during deployment and to mount raids and maneuvers at the enemy rear. On the battlefield, they were used for sudden attacks, usually from ambush, on enemy cavalry and infantry. The Black Sea Cossacks were armed with sabers and musketoons. Riders were well-trained to shoot from horseback and their gunnery inflicted heavy damage on enemy ranks. Cossacks were great masters of the saber and there was barely a soldier in the Russian army who could compete with them in swordsmanship. Later on, General de Braque would say the following about the Cossacks: "Cossacks were the kind of troops who made this war extremely dangerous, especially for those of our officers who dealt with reconnaissance. Many of these preferred to search for information among the locals rather than to get far away from the camp, risking being charged by Cossacks. The Emperor thus wasn't able to obtain trustworthy intelligence". For their feats of arms, the Black Sea Cossacks were awarded the Silver Tuba. 
UNITSMD\RUSKDKOZ.MD.HISTORY The Cossacks were a national feature of the Russian cavalry - no other European army had them. Using Cossacks came as a surprise to the rest of Europe, especially France. No one expected that irregular cavalry would turn out to be so effective and stand as equal to regular forces. Thus, in the battle of Eylau in 1807, the Don's Cossacks under the command of Ataman-General Platov crushed French cuirassiers when the latter managed to drive into the Russian reserve units.The Cossacks, who were involved in farming and cattle-breeding in times of peace, were taught to ride from early childhood. Cossacks in the Russian army were used to carry out reconnaissance and sudden ambushes. The Don's cavalry wasn't as good at attacking in close order - it didn't have the required consistency and discipline. Cossacks preferred to fight in open order, accompanying attacks with loud screams. Due to several peculiarities of the pike as a weapon, the horsemen tried to target the enemy mount's forehand. In addition, every rider had a musket. In the course of operations, the Cossacks became more disciplined. They also learned to attack in close order, which was expected to meet with immediate success. They could attack both the enemy's cavalry and its infantry squares. Throughout an attack, a portion of the Cossack units would dismount and try to engage opposing infantrymen in combat. If the enemy came too close, other Cossack riders would ambush them. Cossacks preferred to fire from close range. In 1813, the Don's Cossacks regiments were granted the Georgian insignia, and in 1816, the insignia with "For Distinguished Services" mark.Cossack horses were mostly non-governmental and taken from their households. They were small in stature, but quite fast, enduring and unpretentious. They allowed riders to perform with the highest effectiveness both on the battlefield and during drills.
UNITSMD\RUSKDRG.MD.HISTORY Dragoons appeared in the Russian army long before Peter's ascension to the throne, but became regular detachments during his reign. There were only two dragoon regiments by the time of his succession to the throne. Thus, to ensure a battle-worthy army, Peter began to increase the number of dragoons, such that in the period from 1701 to 1711, the total number of regiments increased to thirty. As in the armies of the other European countries, dragoons were only mounted infantrymen. Under the reign of Alexander the First, the dragoons were strengthened by seven more regiments, one of which was the Guard regiment. During the Napoleonic wars, Russian dragoons were never used in dismounted order. They appear to have been the most numerous cavalry units in the Russian army. Dragoon regiments, however, were never numbered and had names instead: the Kharkov Dragoon regiment, the Irkutsk Dragoon regiment, the Orenburg Dragoon regiment, the Kargopol Dragoon regiment, the Nezhin Dragoon regiment, the Moskow Dragoon regiment, etc. On the battlefield, dragoons were used for infantry support, as well as for massive cavalry attacks on enemy positions. Dragoons were armed with broadswords and muskets. Well trained riders could direct fire on the enemy from horseback. Their most effective tactic was the short-range volley.
UNITSMD\RUSKEGR.MD.HISTORY During the Patriotic War, the Russian army suffered a lack of light cavalry. The only remaining regiments of Hussars, Uhlans and Cossacks weren't enough, especially since a number of dragoon regiments didn't prove to be very useful. A special type of cavalry was required, more flexible than Hussars and Uhlans. Thus, in 1812, mounted-chasseur forces were created based on the example of Napoleon's mounted chasseurs.Mounted chasseurs were mostly used to perform mounted reconnaissance, assault supply wagon trains and execute sudden ambushes. Instead of sabers, they were armed with muskets. Well-trained riders could fire from horseback. That allowed them to effectively cooperate with Uhlans and Cuirassiers, and act as the "last shooters". 
UNITSMD\RUSKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standard Bearer
UNITSMD\RUSKGEN.MD.HISTORY RusKGen
UNITSMD\RUSKGUS.MD.HISTORY The Russian hussars were established in 1723 by Peter I based on the example of the Hungarian hussars that were already serving in the Austrian army. Regiments weren't numerated, although they had their own names: the Ahtyn Hussar regiment, the Isum Hussar regiment, the Sumy Hussar regiment, the Elizabeth Hussar regiment, the Mariupol Hussar regiment, the Luben Hussar regiment, the Belorussian Hussar regiment, the Groden Hussar regiment and the Alexander Hussar regiment, etc. Hussars were mainly used for mounted reconnaissance, ambushing wagon trains, rear column raids and outflanking maneuvers. In battle, they supported infantry and cavalry. Hussars were armed with sabers and musketoons. A mid-range distance was considered to be their best shooting range as the smallshot used in the hussars' mustketoons inflicted the heaviest damage to the enemy at that distance.
UNITSMD\RUSKKIR.MD.HISTORY Cuirassier units were formed based on the example of Frederick the Great's heavy cavalry and were followers of great Reiters, which the Russian cavalry had chanced to encounter during the Seven Years' War. Other than the cuirass, Russian cavaliers were equipped with a leather helmet with a brazen elbow plate. The Cuirassier regiments were not numbered, and were given individual names instead: the Astrahan Cuirassier regiment, His Majesty's Cuirassier regiment, the Gluhov Cuirassier regiment, the Ekaterinoslav Cuirassier regiment, the Orden Cuirassier regiment, the Novogorod Cuirassier regiment, the Pskow Cuirassier regiment, etc.This type of cavalry was dedicated mainly to frontal attacks on the battlefield. These often decided the outcome of the battle. Cuirassiers were armed with a broadsword and a brace of pistols. Therefore, their only possible firing distance was close-range, when the riders had already broken into the enemy ranks. The cuirass granted the Cuirassier good defense not only against sabers, but against enemy gunfire as well. A musket ball only had a chance to penetrate it from a distance of fifty paces or less, and a pistol round from three to four paces.
UNITSMD\RUSKULN.MD.HISTORY Originally, the Russian army had only Polish and Lithuanian regiments established in 1797, but in 1803, the Tsar's Ukase was ordered to create one more regiment - the Tatar Uhlan regiment. Uhlans were mostly used for infantry support and for providing infantry cover during deployment. There were hardly any troops that could provide cover better than they did. Furthermore Uhlans engaged in reconnaissance and sudden assaults on the enemy from ambushes. Pikes with tassels were the primary Uhlan armament, which distinguished them from the other mounted forces. The Uhlans' principle tactical duties included pursuing   fleeing enemy forces, carrying out sudden attacks on the enemy from the flanks, as well as supporting the other types of cavalry. They most effectively interacted with mounted Chasseurs and Cossacks.




UNITSMD\ENGKDRGL.MD.HISTORY By the end of 1800, all British cavalry had been shifted to Dragoons. Light cavalry leaders were transferred to Light Dragoons, which made up 29 regiments in the British army. In 1805, four light Dragoon regiments were reorganized into Hussar regiments. Dragoons were mainly used to provide mounted scouting, to reinforce infantry and heavy dragoons, and screen the army. These horsemen were armed with sabers and carbines. British riders were well trained, but didn't have enough self-restraint to bear the title of the best European cavalry. This turned up in failures to regroup in timely fashion after striking the first blow. This weakness was completely overwhelmed by the personal courage of every warrior. Even Wellington once said that one British cavalry squadron could cope with two of the enemy's.
UNITSMD\ENGKDRGT.MD.HISTORY After 1800, all the functions of heavy cavalry in Britain were carried out by heavy dragoons. There were thirteen dragoon regiments in all, seven of which were guards. Two regiments were entirely German and were included in the royal German legion. Dragoons were supposed to fiercely drive into a foe's infantry and cavalry. The horsemen were armed with broadswords and carbines. The broadsword in a dragoon's hands was a furious weapon indeed. The British were undeniably unstoppable in attack. Thus, in the Garcia-Hernandez battle, the 3rd squadron under Rotmeister Gustaf von der Deken's command attacked a French infantry square formation. The squadron came under fire at 120 paces from the enemy and even the captain himself was severely wounded and many of his people were slain. Nevertheless, they continued attacking and outflanked the square on two sides. The opening French lines raised their bayonets, but the accidental shooting of one dragoon caused him to fall onto the first line, thus creating the opportunity for the others to break through, notwithstanding an enemy volley. Their efforts weren't wasted - the entire French battalion was slaughtered and the fleeing survivors were captured.
UNITSMD\ENGKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Flag Bearer
UNITSMD\ENGKGUS.MD.HISTORY Hussars as a single troop first appeared in Britain after 1805, when four dragoon regiments, namely the 7th, 10th, 15th and 18th were reorganized into hussars. Their establishment in the British army was caused mainly by the existence of similar regiments in all the other European armies, rather than for any tactical reasons. In spite of that, the 1st Arenschild's Hussars regiment, made up mostly of German soldiers, was considered to be the best mounted formation for outpost military service.Basically, hussars dealt with mounted reconnaissance. Used in battles for infantry and cavalry support, hussars were equipped with sabers and musketoons. The preferred firing position for these cavaliers was beyond the enemy's bayonets, the middle distance. Hussars mastered swordsmanship with the saber quite well, favoring accurate piercing strikes to chopping blows. 






UNITSMD\ENGEGRNG.MD.HISTORY By the beginning of the 19th century, each British battalion had a company of skirmishers - light infantry marksmen. Its soldiers would wage combat in open order and fire at the enemy from long range. Such tactics were for a long time underestimated by all European armies. But the British had experienced them during their attempt to suppress the revolt in North America, where they suffered serious losses from the dispersed attacks of rebels. After these events, the attitude toward light infantry started to change for the better, and British skirmishers soon afterwards proved their efficiency on the battlefield. Consequently, the decision to organize units of marksmen or "rifles" as they were called in England was accepted. Having been armed with rifled guns, a carbine with astonishing accuracy, they could easily hit targets at truly long distances. The riflemen's uniforms were dark green - the usual red uniform was too bright to provide camouflage. Their duties included the elimination of enemy officers and confusion and exhaustion of the enemy by means of sudden attacks from ambush followed by swift retreat. The bullets of royal marksmen always hit their targets and the glory of the "rifles" grew daily. Soon enough they become the national heroes of the British army. The French came to hate snipers, considering such prosecution of the war to be unfair.

UNITSMD\ARTPUSR.MD.HISTORY These were the first major use of rockets in the British army. The British had first encountered rockets used in warfare at Seringpatam in 1792 where they were used successfully against their forces. An attempt to produce a British weapon commenced by general Dezallier was quite unsuccessful until Colonel Congreve at the Royal Laboratory Woolwich took up the project. By 1805 the British had introduced the first reasonably effective military rocket to European warfare. The initial rockets were made of paper and filled with an incendiary blend. In 1806, two hundred rockets were fired from 18 boats in 30 minutes in Boulogne harbor. However strong winds prevented their effective use. Later ones used by the field artillery consisted of three parts: charge, reactive shell and stabilizing pole, which were fixed to the very core of rocket.  The rate of fire reached 10 shots per minute. They had a high rate of fire but lacked stability and were used more to frighten the enemy than cause significant damage. 

UNITSMD\ARTPUS4.MD.HISTORY In the French army, artillery infantry reserve and lifeguard infantry were armed with 12-pound cannon. An infantry artillery reserve was formed in 1804-05 and constituted about 25% of all cannon. Unfortunately, most companies of that time were still armed with 8-pound guns and usually only two companies of artillery reserve were armed with 12-pound cannon. In April of 1808, the first six companies of lifeguards' infantry artillery were equipped with these cannon. Combined with all of the 12-pound guns of the reserve these units were one of the strongest and most dangerous forces in the French army. By 1813, the number of companies had increased to sixteen, and the number of guns increased from four to eight in 1812. French 12-pound guns had a firing range better than all of their equivalents because of the small size of the gap between cannonball diameters and gun caliber. French artillerists occasionally used grapeshot in the range of 800-1200 yards, though efficient range for heavy grapeshot usually was not more that 500-600 yards. 
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4L.MD.HISTORY After 1776, Jean Batiste Gribovalle reorganized all French artillery units. His reforms lead to standardization of all artillery equipment.  Identical gun carriages could be used for guns of any caliber or for howitzers, although some howitzers were equipped with gun carriages with a shorter trail and some heavy cannon gun carriages had hollows for trunnions. Using technical advancements proposed by Gribovalle, French engineers managed to decrease the size of the gap between cannonball diameters and gun barrels. That improvement, in turn made it possible to shorten and lighten barrels and hence to lighten gun carriages. As a result of that reform, cannon made according to the Gribovalle system were much lighter than cannon of the same caliber manufactured previously. Starting in 1803, the French army carried out a number of reforms. Line infantry artillery tried to exchange 4- and 8-pound cannon for 6-pound guns, but the military campaign of 1805 forced the French to deploy them without appropriate tests. As a result, the guns were taken out of production because of numerous complaints about their quality. Full changeover to 6-pound guns in line infantry artillery took place in 1812. Lifeguard cavalry artillery was created in 1799 for the Consulate Guards. In 1806 it was reorganized into a three-squadron regiment, consisting of six companies. Usually a company was armed with six cannon of 6-pound caliber and two 6-inch howitzers. Line cavalry artillery up to 1804 consisted of seven companies. Each unit consisted of six companies and after 1805 there was one in reserve. Usually each company was armed with four 6-pound guns and two 6-inch howitzers.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4G.MD.HISTORY French artillery also included 6-inch howitzers, which were equipped with new the Gribovalle gun carriages, though sometimes they were equipped with short trail gun carriages. In the course of the reforms there was an attempt in 1803 to exchange 6-inch howitzers for 24-inch analogues, but the French only managed to do it once and for all in 1812. Howitzers were long-range guns able to fire shells a distance up to 1200 yards.  Shells were fired over a lofted trajectory and this capability could eventually be used to fire over the infantry formations as well as to shell the enemy positions on the hills. However, in practice this capability was used only by Prussian artillerymen. 
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4E.MD.HISTORY Judging from Napoleon's campaign results in Egypt, the artillery forces of that country were unprofessional in comparison with the European powers. They used artillery only in rare cases and then incorrectly. Probably not one European country had so many types of cannon. Egyptian artillery could be approximately divided into the following groups - field, siege, fortress and shore. Field artillery contained a mix of different light and mobile cannon - 3-pound, 6-pound and 8-pound. Due to the difficulty of traversing the Egyptian landscape, this type of artillery was extremely hard to use. Siege artillery included quite a strange mix of cannon of 12- and 24-pound calibers, mortars and various kinds of howitzers. Siege artillery was rarely employed though as there were not many fortresses to lay siege to. Of those that did exist, the Mamelukes owned almost all. Fortress artillery included 12- and 24-pound stationary guns, which were difficult to move. Artillery crews could not even maneuver them if the enemy left the zone of bombardment. Shore artillery resembled fortress artillery and could be used only for one task - to destroy enemy ships. These guns were also stationary and could direct fire only in one direction.  Nobody carried out any reforms in the Egyptian army that increasingly resembled an obsolete force. Barrels were produced from copper and their weight was almost twice as heavy as their European counterparts. Gun carriages were different not only for different types of guns but even within the same group of cannon. Egyptian artillerymen used black pearl powder while cannonballs and grapeshot were produced from lead and sometimes cast iron.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4LE.MD.HISTORY Judging from Napoleon's campaign results in Egypt, the artillery forces of that country were unprofessional in comparison with the European powers. They used artillery only in rare cases and then incorrectly. Probably not one European country had so many types of cannon. Egyptian artillery could be approximately divided into the following groups - field, siege, fortress and shore. Field artillery contained a mix of different light and mobile cannon - 3-pound, 6-pound and 8-pound. Due to the difficulty of traversing the Egyptian landscape, this type of artillery was extremely hard to use. Siege artillery included quite a strange mix of cannon of 12- and 24-pound calibers, mortars and various kinds of howitzers. Siege artillery was rarely employed though as there were not many fortresses to lay siege to. Of those that did exist, the Mamelukes owned almost all. Fortress artillery included 12- and 24-pound stationary guns, which were difficult to move. Artillery crews could not even maneuver them if the enemy left the zone of bombardment. Shore artillery resembled fortress artillery and could be used only for one task - to destroy enemy ships. These guns were also stationary and could direct fire only in one direction.  Nobody carried out any reforms in the Egyptian army that increasingly resembled an obsolete force. Barrels were produced from copper and their weight was almost twice as heavy as their European counterparts. Gun carriages were different not only for different types of guns but even within the same group of cannon. Egyptian artillerymen used black pearl powder while cannonballs and grapeshot were produced from lead and sometimes cast iron.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4GE.MD.HISTORY Judging from Napoleon's campaign results in Egypt, the artillery forces of that country were unprofessional in comparison with the European powers. They used artillery only in rare cases and then incorrectly. Probably not one European country had so many types of cannon. Egyptian artillery could be approximately divided into the following groups - field, siege, fortress and shore. Field artillery contained a mix of different light and mobile cannon - 3-pound, 6-pound and 8-pound. Due to the difficulty of traversing the Egyptian landscape, this type of artillery was extremely hard to use. Siege artillery included quite a strange mix of cannon of 12- and 24-pound calibers, mortars and various kinds of howitzers. Siege artillery was rarely employed though as there were not many fortresses to lay siege to. Of those that did exist, the Mamelukes owned almost all. Fortress artillery included 12- and 24-pound stationary guns, which were difficult to move. Artillery crews could not even maneuver them if the enemy left the zone of bombardment. Shore artillery resembled fortress artillery and could be used only for one task - to destroy enemy ships. These guns were also stationary and could direct fire only in one direction.  Nobody carried out any reforms in the Egyptian army that increasingly resembled an obsolete force. Barrels were produced from copper and their weight was almost twice as heavy as their European counterparts. Gun carriages were different not only for different types of guns but even within the same group of cannon. Egyptian artillerymen used black pearl powder while cannonballs and grapeshot were produced from lead and sometimes cast iron.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4R.MD.HISTORY Battery (heavy trench) companies were created in the Russian artillery after the reorganization of 1808 - 1810. Each company was equipped with four 12-pound cannon and four half-pound "unicorns". To increase cannon accuracy, Russian artillerymen used Markevich sights developed in 1802. This sight was equipped with a range scale. Aiming was conducted through a hole in a square plate that was placed on one the points of the scale to determine the range of fire. After that, lowering or raising the cannon gunlayer confirmed the aim. Before firing, the plate was placed on the gun barrel. Usually, artillerymen aimed a little bit lower to conserve the inertia of the first ricochet. First contact with the ground by the cannonball was made at 600 yards and conserved destructive capability out to 1100 yards.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4LR.MD.HISTORY Armed with 6-pound cannon, cavalry and light infantry companies were created during the 1808-1810 reforms. Cannon were manufactured by the procedures of 1805, also called the Arkcheev system. Gun-carriages were made according to the Gribovalle system but their pins were made of wood instead of iron and soldiers had to grease them. Each gun was equipped with three crates of ammunition that contained enough shells to fire 174 rounds, including 20 shells transported in the weapon's carriage. Wooden carriages were painted green; metal parts were painted black. In combat, only two artillerymen could stand near an ammo crate.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4GR.MD.HISTORY The Russian army was equipped with hybrid guns that combined the qualities of cannon and howitzers (though this kind of weaponry is usually characterized in history as a howitzer with a more flat shot trajectory and greater range of fire). They were called "Unicorns". This name was taken from the imprint of a unicorn on the breech. This was the emblem of field and workshop master Shuvalov, who manufactured the weapons. Though this imprint was deleted from cannon in 1805, "unicorns" were never renamed. Russian artillery basically used 10- and 20-pound "Unicorns". With time, 4-pound cannons were passed to cavalry and light infantry artillery companies. "Unicorns" were much smaller and lighter. Aiming was conducted with the help of a Kabanov sight. Maximum range of fire for a 10-pound "Unicorn" was 1750 yards and for a 20-pound, 2500 yards. In time, all of the 20-pound weapons were passed to battery companies. Each "Unicorn" in each company was equipped with three ammunition crates.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4AUS.MD.HISTORY At the time of the 1806 - 1809 reforms, all of the heavy Austrian artillery was combined in trench batteries and kept in reserve. Trench batteries consisted of four 12-pound cannon and two howitzers. If needed, these weapons could be positioned on the front line. Heavy artillery also was reformed according to the Gribovalle system. That helped not only to standardize gun-carriages, limbers and ammunition crates but also repair and service tools. The weight of the cannon was also reduced, but they were still too heavy and difficult to transport easily.  Austrian artillerymen were some of the best prepared for action in the whole of Europe. 12-pound heavy cannon had 2 pairs of cavities (crescent notches) on the gun-carriage - the first one to fix the barrel in the firing position and the second one for transportation in order to evenly distribute the weight. Such an arrangement usually led to long delays in movement and in preparation for the battle.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4ENG.MD.HISTORY In 1808, the British once again added to the arsenal.  A 9-pound cannon replaced some of the 6-pound cannon in a few units.  In the Royal German Legion, one of the artillery brigades had four 9-pound cannon that were already equipped with the Congreve gun carriage. This construction significantly decreased the weight of the gun carriage and displaced the focal point of the gun. It made it possible for even one soldier to change the position of a cannon. The frame gun carriage decreased recoil as well as providing more ability for maneuver. The rate of fire in ideal conditions reached five rounds per minute. 
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4PRU.MD.HISTORY The first infantry artillery in Prussia appeared after the reorganization of 1805. They were equipped with 12-pound cannon that were created on the basis of their Austrian analogues and were successfully and actively used during the campaign of 1806. Due to a new regulation in 1812, the Prussian army abolished battalion cannon, while auxiliary corps, in addition to the 6-pound cannon, were equipped with a 12-pound half-battery. But by the August of 1813 Prussian artillery had six batteries with 12-pound cannon. In order to inflict the heaviest damage to the enemy troops by one single shot, gunners aimed the shell on the ground in front of the enemy formations, thus making it ricochet through it After the ricochet, cannonball continued its motion at waist level and could even tear horses to pieces. 
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4GAUS.MD.HISTORY Austrian howitzers were some of the best in Europe. Between 1806 and 1809 Austrian artillery units were reorganized. All of the howitzers were combined into trench batteries with either 6 or 12-pound cannon. Howitzers also were reformed according to the Gribovalle example. The main difference in howitzer gun-carriages consisted of the absence of one pair of hollows and a short trail. The effective range of howitzers was 700 to 1200 yards. Firing shells on a high trajectory, this type of heavy weapon could be used to fire from behind rows of infantry, although that deployment was never used in practice. The area of bomb damage was about 25 yards.  
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4GENG.MD.HISTORY British artillery was supplied with howitzers of 5.5-inch caliber, which had been improved by Congreve's full gun carriage. Howitzers were set on frame gun carriages with an extremely short trail. Each British artillery regiment was equipped with a single howitzer, although the German Royal Legion's regiments had two. These weapons of heavy destructive capability could fire up to 1200 yards. The minimum firing range was 700 yards.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4GPRU.MD.HISTORY The Prussian army was one of the first to decide to combine howitzers in batteries. In 1813, the first 7-pound battery was formed. This battery consisted of eight howitzers, 12 crates of ammunition and two wagons. Another battery appeared in 1814 and five more in 1815. Prussian artillery actively used the howitzer's ability to fire over friendly lines. In August of 1813 Prussian artillery got the following instruction: "If the enemy concentrates on the opposite slope of the heights, commanders of howitzer batteries must ensure the highest concentration of fire on enemy positions". The effective range of howitzers was from 700 to 1200 yards. The area of bomb damage was about 25 yards.
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4LAUS.MD.HISTORY Austrian six-pound artillery was restructured between 1806 and 1809 as per the French example - all artillery forces used the Gribovalle system as a model. Guns were combined in batteries. Instead of scattered fire, the Austrian command developed the method of fire concentration. As a result, 6-pound guns were combined in brigades or trench batteries. Brigade batteries consisted of eight cannon. Trench batteries consisted of four 6-pound guns and two howitzers. Cavalry batteries of Austrian artillery were not really "cavalry". Because of a lack of horses, only officers were mounted. Soldiers were transported to the battlefield sitting on ammunition crates called "Wurst wagons". These batteries were equipped with five 6-pound guns and one 7-pound howitzer plus three wagons with ammunition crates and 24 pack-horses with 12 horsemen. 
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4LENG.MD.HISTORY After the war with France in Italy, English artillery went through a number of reforms and became one of the best in Europe. In 1792, Sir William Congreve invented a full gun carriage for 6-pound cannon that made it possible to create a very effective artillery system. In 1803, English artillery consisted of eight battalions. In 1806, one more battalion was created and by 1808 there were ten of them. Each unit was equipped with six guns (usually it was five cannon and one howitzer). Royal cavalry artillery in 1801 consisted of seven troops and by 1806 there were twelve. Cavalry troops usually consisted of five 6-pound cannons. 
UNITSMD\ARTPUS4LPRU.MD.HISTORY Prussian 6-pound artillery was created by regulation in 1792. All artillery was divided among infantry companies, so each battalion had at least one 6-pound cannon. The first attempt to reorganize artillery was made in 1805 and by 1806 there already were four regiments of infantry artillery and one cavalry artillery regiment. Only the latter was equipped with 6-pound cannon. In 1812, due to a new regulation, all battalion cannon were eliminated and the Prussian auxiliary corps was equipped with four infantry batteries, each with six cannon. At the end of August 1813 Prussia had 50 batteries with 30 infantry and 12 cavalry batteries equipped with 6-pound cannon. In ideal conditions Prussian artillerymen could maintain a rate of cannon fire of eight rounds per minute. In difficult battle conditions, the maximum rate of fire reached two cannon rounds or three grapeshot rounds per minute.




UNITSMD\TURKARB.MD.HISTORY Light supporting Arab detachments were good warriors and riders, in times of peace they mostly acted as caravan guards and Mecca palmers. They were well versed in riding and swordsmanship, however they could hardly rival the Mamelukes in it. Each warrior was armed with two pistols, a saber and a dagger which were worn in their sash. Their uniform was gaily colored and their armament and weapons were excessively decorated with gold. Some warriors wore chain mail. As with the Mamelukes, additional light cavalry detachments never attacked in close order. In battle they relied mainly on individual mastery. They often used false retreat and ambush tactics. If the troop was dispersed, the survivors retreated, regrouped and attacked the enemy again.



UNITSMD\AUSSAP.MD.HISTORY Any army requires fortifications and supplementary structures such as bridges, pontoons, etc. Construction of these structures, road paving and digging of entrenchments were included in the duties of combat engineers. They did not differ essentially from troops in the line infantry except for an obligatory item of equipment - a shovel. Military engineer was a name given to people involved in construction. Often they took command of units of regular soldiers who were temporarily transferred to engineer regiments and given tools. 
UNITSMD\PRUSAP.MD.HISTORY Any army requires fortifications and auxiliary structures - bridges and pontoons. Construction of such structures, as well as paving roads and digging entrenchments were part of engineers' duties. They were not much different from soldiers of the line infantry, except for an obligatory element of their equipment, a spade. Military engineers were in charge of designing the structures and managing their construction. Frequently, the engineers would take command over companies of regular soldiers, who were temporarily transferred into engineer troops and provided with the necessary tools.  

UNITSMD\POLVOL.MD.HISTORY Voltigeur
UNITSMD\VESVOL.MD.HISTORY Voltigeur
UNITSMD\SPNMUS.MD.HISTORY Musketeer
UNITSMD\VESMUS.MD.HISTORY Musketeer
UNITSMD\POLEGR.MD.HISTORY Chasseurr
UNITSMD\SPNEGR.MD.HISTORY Chasseur
UNITSMD\VESEGR.MD.HISTORY Chasseur 
UNITSMD\POLFUZ.MD.HISTORY Fusilier
UNITSMD\VESFUZ.MD.HISTORY Fusilier 
UNITSMD\SPNPARNEW.MD.HISTORY Gurriela
UNITSMD\POLSAP.MD.HISTORY Sapper
UNITSMD\SPNSAP.MD.HISTORY Sapper
UNITSMD\VESSAP.MD.HISTORY Sapper
UNITSMD\POLGRE.MD.HISTORY Grenadier
UNITSMD\SPNGRE.MD.HISTORY Grenadier
UNITSMD\VESGRE.MD.HISTORY Grenadier
UNITSMD\FRNOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\RUSOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\ENGOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\PRUOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\AUSOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\TUROF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\POLOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\SPNOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\VESOF.MD.HISTORY Officer
UNITSMD\FRNBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\RUSBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\ENGBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\PRUBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\AUSBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\TURKBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\POLBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\SPNBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\VESBAR.MD.HISTORY Drummer
UNITSMD\FRNFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\RUSFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\ENGFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\PRUFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\AUSFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\POLFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\SPNFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\VESFLG.MD.HISTORY Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\POLKULN.MD.HISTORY Mounted Uhlan
UNITSMD\POLKEGR.MD.HISTORY Mounted Chasseur
UNITSMD\VESKEGR.MD.HISTORY Mounted Chasseur 
UNITSMD\FRNKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\RUSKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\ENGKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\PRUKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\AUSKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\POLKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\SPNKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\VESKFLG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Standart Bearer
UNITSMD\POLKGUS.MD.HISTORY Mounted Husar
UNITSMD\SPNKGUS.MD.HISTORY Mounted Husar
UNITSMD\VESKGUS.MD.HISTORY Mounted Husar
UNITSMD\SPNKDRG.MD.HISTORY Mounted Dragoon
UNITSMD\VESKDRG.MD.HISTORY Bavaria Dragoon
UNITSMD\POLKKIR.MD.HISTORY Mounted Cuiraiser
UNITSMD\VESKKIR.MD.HISTORY Mounted Cuiraiser 
UNITSMD\SPNKGVR.MD.HISTORY Prince 
UNITSMD\SPNKEGR.MD.HISTORY Mounted Hunter
UNITSMD\VESKLAN.MD.HISTORY Light Cavlryman
UNITSMD\POLKKRA.MD.HISTORY Mounted Krakuse
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDENGEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Rifleman
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDRUSMUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Musketeer
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPRUMUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Musketeer
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDSPNMUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Musketeer
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDRUSEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Chasseur
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDENGEGRNG.MD.HISTORY Guards Chasseur
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPRUEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Chasseur
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDAUSEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Chasseur
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDVESEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Chasseur
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDFRNGRE.MD.HISTORY Guards Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDENGGRE.MD.HISTORY Royal Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDAUSGRE.MD.HISTORY Guards Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPOLGRE.MD.HISTORY Guards Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDSPNGRE.MD.HISTORY Guards Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDVESGRE.MD.HISTORY Guards Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDEGPEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Tuareg
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDEGPMUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Janissary
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPOLKULN.MD.HISTORY Guards Uhlan
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDVESKLAN.MD.HISTORY Guards Lancer
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDAUSKGUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Husar
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPOLKGUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Husar
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDVESKGUS.MD.HISTORY Guards Husar
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDENGKDRGT.MD.HISTORY Royal Dragoon
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPRUKDRG.MD.HISTORY Guards Dragoon
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDSPNKDRG.MD.HISTORY Guards Dragoon
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDRUSKKIR.MD.HISTORY Guards Cuiraiser
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDAUSKKIR.MD.HISTORY Guards Cuiraiser
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDFRNKMAM.MD.HISTORY Guards Mameluke
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDEGPKMAML.MD.HISTORY Guards Light Mameluke
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDEGPKMAMT.MD.HISTORY Guards heavy Mameluke
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDFRNKGRE.MD.HISTORY Guards Grenadier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDRUSKCHKOZ.MD.HISTORY Blacksea Cossack
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPRUGVA.MD.HISTORY Guards Cavalryman
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDFRNKKAR.MD.HISTORY Guards Carabinier
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDSPNKEGR.MD.HISTORY Guards Hunter
UNITSGUARDMD\GUARDPOLKKRA.MD.HISTORY Guards Krakuse
